Docs: Improvements, add spring-boot.md, fix some mistakes (#264)
avaje/avaje-config: docs/guides/spring-boot.md

# Using avaje-config with Spring Boot

How to integrate avaje-config (and avaje-aws-appconfig) into a Spring Boot 3 application.

> ## How avaje-config Relates to Spring Boot

Reviewer: If you're using spring would it not be better to use spring's config system? also why spring boot 3 over 4?

avaje-config initialises as a standalone library, **independently of the Spring
application context**. This means:

- Spring's `@Value` and `Environment` read from Spring's own property sources
- They do **not** automatically see avaje-config or AWS AppConfig values
- For any property sourced from avaje-config (especially AppConfig dynamic values),
  use `Config.get()` directly rather than `@Value`

```java
// ✅ Correct — reads from avaje-config (including AWS AppConfig values)
var url = Config.get("db.url");

// ⚠️ Only works for values in Spring's Environment (application.yaml loaded by Spring)
@Value("${db.url}")
private String url;
```

> avaje-config can be bridged into Spring's property sources if needed, but the
> simpler approach is to use `Config.get()` wherever you need dynamic config values.

## Step 1: Add Dependencies

```xml
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.avaje</groupId>
  <artifactId>avaje-config</artifactId>
  <version>5.1</version>
</dependency>
<dependency>
  <groupId>io.avaje</groupId>
  <artifactId>avaje-aws-appconfig</artifactId>
  <version>1.6</version>
</dependency>
```

> **Important:** `avaje-config` is declared `provided` in `avaje-aws-appconfig`'s POM.

> > You must add it explicitly — it will not be pulled in transitively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> You must add it explicitly as it will not be pulled in transitively.
```

## Step 2: Configuration Files

avaje-config loads `application.yaml` from the classpath independently of Spring Boot.
Both libraries load the same file, but from their own parsing context.

> **`src/main/resources/application.yaml`** — use `${ENV_VAR:default}` for env-injected values:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, we use `${ENV_VAR:default}` for env-injected values:
```

```yaml
db:
  url: ${DB_URL:jdbc:postgresql://localhost:5432/mydb}
  user: ${DB_USER:myuser}
  pass: ${DB_PASS:}

aws.appconfig:
  enabled: true
  application: ${ENVIRONMENT_NAME:dev}-my-service
  environment: ${ENVIRONMENT_NAME:dev}
  configuration: default
```

> **`src/test/resources/application-test.yaml`** — disable AppConfig in tests:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, we disable AppConfig in tests:
```

Reviewer 2: I think it is better as is for agents to consume in terms of Step-by-step instructions.

## Step 3: Database Bean with `@ConditionalOnMissingBean`

Spring Boot 3 disables bean override by default. When a `TestConfiguration` provides
a test database bean (e.g. using Testcontainers), the production `DatabaseConfig`
must not also try to register a `Database` bean.

Use `@ConditionalOnMissingBean` so the production bean is skipped when a test
override is already registered:

```java
@Configuration
class DatabaseConfig {

  @Bean
  @ConditionalOnMissingBean(Database.class)
  Database database() {
    var url = Config.get("db.url");          // reads from avaje-config
    var user = Config.get("db.user", "myuser");
    var pass = Config.get("db.pass", "");

    var dataSource = DataSourceBuilder.create()
        .url(url)
        .username(user)
        .password(pass)
        .build();

    return Database.builder()
        .dataSourceBuilder(dataSource)
        .build();
  }
}
```

The test configuration (imported via `@Import`) is processed first, so
`@ConditionalOnMissingBean` causes the production bean to be skipped.

## Step 4: Test Configuration

```java
@TestConfiguration
class TestDatabaseConfig {

  @Bean
  Database database() {

>     // Testcontainers PostgreSQL — registered before DatabaseConfig is processed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    // Testcontainers PostgreSQL  registered before DatabaseConfig is processed
```
